lubrication.txt
Created Thu Nov  2 08:10:52 AKDT 2017
Copyright (C) 2017 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Lubrication

ISO Hub Manual

Chris King
Precision Components

Lubrication, p. 7
Disassembly of one piece axle on front ISO hub, p. 9
Disassembly of one piece axle on rear ISO hub,  p. 12
The RingDrive, Inspection, Basic maintenance,   p. 17

Summer (32 - 110F) Chris Kigng RingDrive grease
Winter sub-freezing conditions - quality 10w synthetic oil.
  Pedros SynLube or Mobil 1 <===


Lubrication
===========

Normal conditions
-----------------
In normal riding conditions (32 ° - 110° F), our Ring Drive grease is
recommended for the bearings and the RingDrive.  Do not substitute
other brands of grease, as they may cause premature wear and/or be too
sticky for the helix of the RingDrive inhibiting proper engagement.


Cold conditions
---------------
To ensure proper engagement in sub-freezing conditions, first be sure
that there is no water or moisture inside the hubshell. The hub may
require an overhaul to ensure that the hub interior is completely
water-free.  Then mix the grease in the RingDrive area, especially
on the helical splines of the driveshell, with 5-10 drops of Tri-flow.
If you expect to be riding in temperatures that are consistently at
or below freezing replace all internal lube with a quality 10w synthetic
oil. Do not over fill.  We reccomend using a siliconal oil (Pedros
SynLube or Mobil 1)


Wet conditions
--------------
Riding in wet conditions necessitates more frequent ser vice.  Often this
is as simple as removing the axle and driveshell from the hub, removing
any moisture from inside the hub shell, and applying more grease to the
needle bearing. This should not replace periodic complete disassembly
and maintenance, especially in extreme or prolonged wet conditions.

Since it is nearly impossible to seal a hub from water and still have it
spin freely, we have designed our hubs to be able to operate normally
with some water intrusion. Although the bearings are stainless steel
and will resist water induced corrosion, the lubricant will eventually
deteriorate, leading to premature bearing wear and possible failure.
High-pressure spray washing, transporting or riding the bicycle in the
rain, or submersion in water while riding can all lead to lubricant
contamination by water. Be aware of these situations and service more
frequently when they occur.


In a pinch...
-------------
If Chris King RingDrive lube in not available, a quality 10w synthetic
oil may be substituted. Do not substitute other brands of grease, as 
they may be too sticky for the helix of the RingDr ive. Running the hub
on oil will cause the RingDr ive to be more audible, yet functionally
no different. Since this is a lighter lube than our RingDrive lube your
hub needs to be serviced more often.

If you have any additional questions, please call our Technical Services
Department at 800.523.6008, or check out our web site for tech info and
videos: www.chrisking.com

